Add doc for the latest "MacCatalyst is superset of iOS" updates (#26032)
dotnet/docs: docs/standard/analyzers/platform-compat-analyzer.md

## How the analyzer determines platform dependency

- An **unattributed API** is considered to work on **all OS platforms**.

> - An API marked with `[SupportedOSPlatform("platform")]` is considered only portable to the specified and parent OS `platform(s)`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An API marked with `[SupportedOSPlatform("platform")]` is considered only portable to the specified platform and its parent OS.
```

  - The attribute can be applied multiple times to indicate **multiple platform support**, for example `[SupportedOSPlatform("windows"), SupportedOSPlatform("Android29.0")]`.

>   - For [**related** platforms](#related-platforms) the attribute also imply its parent support:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - For [**related** platforms](#related-platforms), the attribute implies that the parent is also supported.
```

>     - For example `[SupportedOSPlatform("iOS")` annotation imply that the API is supported on `iOS` and also supported on its parent platform: `MacCatalyst`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - For example, `[SupportedOSPlatform("iOS")]` implies that the API is supported on `iOS` and also on its parent platform, `MacCatalyst`.
```

  - The analyzer will produce a **warning** if platform-specific APIs are referenced without a proper **platform context**:
    - **Warns** if the project doesn't target the supported platform (for example, a Windows-specific API called from a project targeting iOS `<TargetFramework>net5.0-ios14.0</TargetFramework>`).
    - **Warns** if the project is cross-platform and calls platform-specific APIs (for example, a Windows-specific API called from cross platform TFM `<TargetFramework>net5.0</TargetFramework>`).
    - **Doesn't warn** if the platform-specific API is referenced within a project that targets any of the **specified platforms** (for example, for a Windows-specific API called from a project targeting windows `<TargetFramework>net5.0-windows</TargetFramework>`).
    - **Doesn't warn** if the platform-specific API call is guarded by corresponding platform-check methods (for example, a Windows-specific API call guarded by `OperatingSystem.IsWindows()`).
    - **Doesn't warn** if the platform-specific API is referenced from the same platform-specific context (**call site also attributed** with `[SupportedOSPlatform("platform")`).

> - An API marked with `[UnsupportedOSPlatform("platform")]` is considered unsupported on the specified and parent OS `platform(s)` but supported for all other platforms.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- An API marked with `[UnsupportedOSPlatform("platform")]` is considered to be unsupported on the specified platform and its parent OS, but supported for all other platforms.
```

  - The attribute can be applied multiple times with different platforms, for example, `[UnsupportedOSPlatform("iOS"), UnsupportedOSPlatform("Android29.0")]`.

>   - For [**related** platforms](#related-platforms) the attribute also imply its parent unsupport:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - For [**related** platforms](#related-platforms), the attribute implies that the parent platform is also unsupported.
```

>     - For example: `[UnsupportedOSPlatform("iOS")` annotation imply that the API is unsupported on `iOS` and also unsupported on its parent platform: `MacCatalyst`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - For example, `[UnsupportedOSPlatform("iOS")]` implies that the API is unsupported on `iOS` and also on its parent platform, `MacCatalyst`.
```

  > [!NOTE]
  > If the *AssemblyInfo.cs* file generation is disabled for the project (that is, the `<GenerateAssemblyInfo>` property is set to `false`), the required assembly level `SupportedOSPlatform` attribute can't be added by MSBuild. In this case, you could see warnings for a platform-specific APIs usage even if you're targeting that platform. To resolve the warnings, enable the *AssemblyInfo.cs* file generation or add the attribute manually in your project.

### Related platforms

> In .NET 6.0 we added new scenario for platforms relation where a platform could be a superset of another platform and the child platform annotation would imply the parent platform support/unsupport. If any platform check method of <xref:System.OperatingSystem> type has a `SupportedOSPlatformGuard("parentPlatform")]` attribute then that `parentPlatform` is accounted as a superset of the OS platform the method is checking.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.NET 6 introduces the concept of *related platforms*, where one platform can be a superset of another platform. An annotation for the child platform implies the same support (or lack thereof) for the parent platform. If a platform check method in the <xref:System.OperatingSystem> type has a `SupportedOSPlatformGuard("parentPlatform")]` attribute, then `parentPlatform` is considered a superset of the OS platform the method is checking.
```

> For example <xref:System.OperatingSystem.IsIOS?displayProperty=nameWithType> has `SupportedOSPlatformGuard("MacCatalyst")]` therefore:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For example, the <xref:System.OperatingSystem.IsIOS?displayProperty=nameWithType> method is attributed `[SupportedOSPlatformGuard("MacCatalyst")]`. Therefore, the following statements apply:
```

>   1. <xref:System.OperatingSystem.IsIOS?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.OperatingSystem.IsIOSVersionAtLeast%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> methods not only checking `iOS` platform, it also can be used for checking the platform `MacCatalyst`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - The <xref:System.OperatingSystem.IsIOS?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.OperatingSystem.IsIOSVersionAtLeast%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> methods check not only the `iOS` platform, but also the `MacCatalyst` platform.
```

>   2. `[SupportedOSPlatform("iOS")` annotation imply that the API is supported on `iOS` and also supported on its parent platform: `MacCatalyst`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  - `[SupportedOSPlatform("iOS")]` implies that the API is supported on `iOS` and also on its parent platform, `MacCatalyst`.
```

>     - One can use `[UnsSupportedOSPlatform("MacCatalyst")]` attribute to exclude this implied support.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    You can use the `[UnsSupportedOSPlatform("MacCatalyst")]` attribute to exclude this implied support.
```

>   3. `[UnsupportedOSPlatform("iOS")` implies that the API is not supported on `iOS` and `Maccatalyst`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  3. `[UnsupportedOSPlatform("iOS")` implies that the API is not supported on `iOS` and `Maccatalyst`.
```

>     - One can use `[SupportedOSPlatform("MacCatalyst")]` attribute to exclude this implied unsupport.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - You can use the `[SupportedOSPlatform("MacCatalyst")]` attribute to exclude this implied lack of support.
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Consider the following support matrix.

| | `SupportedOSPlatform(child)` | `SupportedOSPlatform(parent)` | `UnsupportedOSPlatform(child)` | `UnsupportedOSPlatform(parent)` |
| - | - | - | - | - |
| **Child OS** | ✔️ | ❌ | ❌ | ✔️ |
| **Parent OS** | ✔️ | ✔️ | ❌ | ❌ |

The following code snippet shows how you can combine attributes to set the right level of support.

```

```csharp
  // Macatalyst is a superset of iOS therefore supported on iOS and MacCatalyst  
  [SupportedOSPlatform("iOS")]
  public void ApiOnlySupportedOnIOSAndMacCatalyst() { }

  // Does not imply iOS, only supported on MacCatalyst
  [SupportedOSPlatform("MacCatalyst")]
  public void ApiOnlySupportedOnMacCatalyst() { }

  [SupportedOSPlatform("iOS")] // Supported on iOS and MacCatalyst  
  [UnsupportedOSPlatform("MacCatalyst")] // Removes implied MacCatalyst support
  public void ApiOnlySupportedOnIos() { }

  // Unsupported on iOS and MacCatalyst  
  [UnsupportedOSPlatform("iOS")]
  public void ApiUnsupportedOnIOSAndMacCatalyst();

  // Does not imply iOS, only unsupported on MacCatalyst
  [UnsupportedOSPlatform("MacCatalyst")]
  public void ApiUnsupportedOnMacCatalyst() { }

  [UnsupportedOSPlatform("iOS")] // Unsupported on iOS and MacCatalyst  

>   [SupportedOSPlatform("MacCatalyst")] // Removes implied MacCatalyst unsupport

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  [SupportedOSPlatform("MacCatalyst")] // Removes implied MacCatalyst unsupportedness
```

  > [!NOTE]
  > If the *AssemblyInfo.cs* file generation is disabled for the project (that is, the `<GenerateAssemblyInfo>` property is set to `false`), the required assembly level `SupportedOSPlatform` attribute can't be added by MSBuild. In this case, you could see warnings for a platform-specific APIs usage even if you're targeting that platform. To resolve the warnings, enable the *AssemblyInfo.cs* file generation or add the attribute manually in your project.

### Related platforms

.NET 6 introduces the concept of *related platforms*, where one platform can be a superset of another platform. An annotation for the child platform implies the same support (or lack thereof) for the parent platform. If a platform check method in the <xref:System.OperatingSystem> type has a `SupportedOSPlatformGuard("parentPlatform")]` attribute, then `parentPlatform` is considered a superset of the OS platform the method is checking.

For example, the <xref:System.OperatingSystem.IsIOS?displayProperty=nameWithType> method is attributed `[SupportedOSPlatformGuard("MacCatalyst")]`. Therefore, the following statements apply:

>   - The <xref:System.OperatingSystem.IsIOS?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.OperatingSystem.IsIOSVersionAtLeast%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> methods check not only the `iOS` platform, but also the `MacCatalyst` platform.

Author: ```suggestion
- The <xref:System.OperatingSystem.IsIOS?displayProperty=nameWithType> and <xref:System.OperatingSystem.IsIOSVersionAtLeast%2A?displayProperty=nameWithType> methods check not only the `iOS` platform, but also the `MacCatalyst` platform.
```

>   - `[SupportedOSPlatform("iOS")]` implies that the API is supported on `iOS` and also on its parent platform, `MacCatalyst`.

Author: ```suggestion
- `[SupportedOSPlatform("iOS")]` implies that the API is supported on `iOS` and also on its parent platform, `MacCatalyst`.
```

>     You can use the `[UnsSupportedOSPlatform("MacCatalyst")]` attribute to exclude this implied support.

Author: ```suggestion
  - You can use the `[UnsSupportedOSPlatform("MacCatalyst")]` attribute to exclude this implied support.
```

>   3. `[UnsupportedOSPlatform("iOS")` implies that the API is not supported on `iOS` and `Maccatalyst`.

Author: ```suggestion
- `[UnsupportedOSPlatform("iOS")` implies that the API is not supported on `iOS` and `Maccatalyst`.
```

>     - You can use the `[SupportedOSPlatform("MacCatalyst")]` attribute to exclude this implied lack of support.

Author: ```suggestion
  - You can use the `[SupportedOSPlatform("MacCatalyst")]` attribute to exclude this implied lack of support.
```

    ```

  - **Inconsistent list**. If the lowest version for some platforms is `[SupportedOSPlatform]` while it is `[UnsupportedOSPlatform]` for other platforms, it's considered to be inconsistent, which is not supported for the analyzer. If inconsistency occurs, the analyzer ignores the `[UnsupportedOSPlatform]` platforms.

>     - If the lowest versions of `[SupportedOSPlatform]` and `[UnsupportedOSPlatform]` attributes are equal, the analyzer considers the platform as part of the **Supported only list**.

Reviewer 2: Is this spacing correct?

Author: Yes, this is a sub scenario of "Inconsistent list"
